share/pages/about.md, before:

title: TBSliver - About

# Who is this insane individual?

I am a developer working for [Shadowcat Systems][scsys] in Lancaster

[scsys]: http://shadow.cat "Shadowcat Systems Limited"

# Where can you find me?

I am available on all the following forms of communication (Although the closer
to the top, the more likely I am going to reply).

## IRC

I can be found on the following servers (and channels), all with the same
username: TBSliver. This is probably the easiest and quickest way to get in
contact with me.

### irc.perl.org

- #perl
- #hardware
- #northwestengland.pm
- #dbix-class
- #catalyst
- #web-simple
- #toolchain
- #xs

Among other channels...

### irc.frenode.net

- #hacman
- #lamm
- #flossuk
- #hackspace
- #tilda

### irc.esper.net

- #minecraftonline

Im not very active on this server, so better asking on Freenode, or Perl.

## Email

This is my personal e-mail address - please leave the '+tbs.me' part of the
address intact (Atleast for the initial e-mail), otherwise there is a high
chance I will miss it.

- <script language="JavaScript">
var username = "tom.bloor+tbs.me";
var hostname = "googlemail.com";
var linktext = username + "@" + hostname ;
document.write("<a href='" + "mail" + "to:" + username + "@" + hostname + "'>" + linktext + "</a>");
</script>

## GitHub

My GitHub account is [TBSliver at GitHub][github]

[github]: https://github.com/TBSliver "TBSliver at GitHub"

## Deviant Art

My deviant art account is [TBSliver at DeviantArt][deviant-art]

[deviant-art]: http://tbsliver.deviantart.com/ "TBSliver at DeviantArt"

Commit message:

added twitter account to About page

share/pages/about.md, after:

title: TBSliver - About

# Who is this insane individual?

I am a developer working for [Shadowcat Systems][scsys] in Lancaster

[scsys]: http://shadow.cat "Shadowcat Systems Limited"

# Where can you find me?

I am available on all the following forms of communication (Although the closer
to the top, the more likely I am going to reply).

## IRC

I can be found on the following servers (and channels), all with the same
username: TBSliver. This is probably the easiest and quickest way to get in
contact with me.

### irc.perl.org

- #perl
- #hardware
- #northwestengland.pm
- #dbix-class
- #catalyst
- #web-simple
- #toolchain
- #xs

Among other channels...

### irc.frenode.net

- #hacman
- #lamm
- #flossuk
- #hackspace
- #tilda

### irc.esper.net

- #minecraftonline

Im not very active on this server, so better asking on Freenode, or Perl.

## Twitter

My twitter account is [TBSliver on Twitter][twitter]

[twitter]: https://twitter.com/tbsliver "TBSliver on Twitter"

## Email

This is my personal e-mail address - please leave the '+tbs.me' part of the
address intact (Atleast for the initial e-mail), otherwise there is a high
chance I will miss it.

- <script language="JavaScript">
var username = "tom.bloor+tbs.me";
var hostname = "googlemail.com";
var linktext = username + "@" + hostname ;
document.write("<a href='" + "mail" + "to:" + username + "@" + hostname + "'>" + linktext + "</a>");
</script>

## GitHub

My GitHub account is [TBSliver at GitHub][github]

[github]: https://github.com/TBSliver "TBSliver at GitHub"

## Deviant Art

My deviant art account is [TBSliver at DeviantArt][deviant-art]

[deviant-art]: http://tbsliver.deviantart.com/ "TBSliver at DeviantArt"
